just thought I'd bring the bare
essentials for the shoot
before I set up the softbox is the
tripods and all the paraphernalia that
goes with white background fuel studio
work I prefer this to take an ordinary
white piece of perspex and use it almost
a screen test various candidates
specimens I what I'm looking for here is
well really like plants with personality
and that's manifest in the sweep of the
stem the condition of the flowers how
the plot almost holds itself we're
looking for that specimen that somehow
is the best of that species know a lot
of these are just not really quite what
I'm looking for the flowers are not
maybe sitting in the same focal plane so
i won't you keep everything sharp or
they may be not quite as fresh as it
might be but right i think this might be
the one that we're looking for
yeah that's looking good we've got a
nice range of the flowers they're all
just in one focal planes I'll be able to
keep all of that sharp and even though
it's windy today remember for the few
studi work it doesn't matter it doesn't
matter what the lights light it doesn't
matter if it's windy unless it's very
violent because all the speed that you
need will be delivered by the very short
flash durations down to maybe 4,000 to
the second that's going to take quite
Hourigan to not to have that frozen
sharp so I know I find my specimen I'll
go and get the gear setup will do the
shoot
has taken a good 15 minutes to get all
this setup and an actual fact it's a
setup phase rather than the photography
that's the most time-consuming bit of
this field studio work now i'm using a
link room ranger quadra system here with
soft boxes by an actual fact you get
just the same results with a piece of
perspex behind the subject and a piece
of envelope stiffener as a diffuser in
front of it the loop the pictures will
be just the same this is just a little
bit more convenient if you do a lot of
this work the first thing we need to do
is to determine the best exposure for
the background and the best exposure is
where its 255 in each channel but only
just I want the background to be fully
exposed but not so much like spilling
forward onto subject it then becomes
difficult to separate subject and
background in order to do this we need
to move the front light source out the
way first because all we're doing is
concentrating and getting that
background pure white flash powered up
and i'm just going to guess the exposure
at the outset got my sync speed set at
160th and we'll start off with the flash
power quite low and f 20
now the histogram tells me that although
part of the background is blinking
therefore fully overexposed another part
of it is not quite there yet so we'll
increase the power by a third of a stop
on the flash try that again
and this time is that third of the stock
made all the difference so it's showing
pure white for the whole background but
of course the front of the subject is a
bit under lit so now we've got the
exposure for the background sorted out
we just need a front light so can swing
this background
and it's perfect the backgrounds
blinking away so it's properly
overexposed and the front of the subject
is very nicely lit I'm going to pull it
up to one hundred percent there's lots
and lots of detail there now I'm
hand-holding because the flash duration
is so short that I don't need to have
the camera and a tripod to get a sharp
picture and even if it's a little bit
windy as it is at the moment the subject
will still be very very sharp